README.md, before:

# Apisauce

```
(Ring ring ring,)
< Hello?
> Hi, can I speak to JSON API.
< Speaking.
> Hi, it's me JavaScript.  Look, we need to talk.
< Now is not a good time...
> Wait, I just wanted to say, sorry.
< ...
```

Talking to APIs doesn't have to be awkward anymore.

[![npm module](https://badge.fury.io/js/apisauce.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/apisauce)

# Features

* low-fat wrapper for the amazing `axios` http client library
* all responses follow the same flow: success and failure alike
* responses have a `problem` property to help guide exception flow
* attach functions that get called each request
* detects connection issues

# Installing

`npm i apisauce --save`

* Depends on `ramdasauce 1.0.0+`
* Depends on `axios 0.9.1+`.
* Targets ES5.
* Built with ES6.
* Supported in Node and the browser(s).


# Quick Start

```js
// showLastCommitMessageForThisLibrary.js
import {create} from 'apisauce'

// define the api
const api = create({
  baseURL: 'https://api.github.com',
  headers: {'Accept': 'application/vnd.github.v3+json'}
})

// start making calls
api
  .get('/repos/skellock/apisauce/commits')
  .then((response) => response.data[0].commit.message)
  .then(console.log)
```

See the examples folder for more code.

# Documentation

### Create an API

You create an api by calling `.create()` and passing in a configuration object.

```js
const api = create({baseURL: 'https://api.github.com'})
```

The only required property is `baseURL` and it should be the starting point for
your API.  It can contain a sub-path and a port as well.

```js
const api = create({baseURL: 'https://example.com/api/v3'})
```

HTTP request headers for all requests can be included as well.

```js
const api = create({
  baseURL: '...',
  headers: {
    'X-API-KEY': '123',
    'X-MARKS-THE-SPOT': 'yarrrrr'
  }
})
```

Default timeouts can be applied too:

```js
const api = create({baseURL: '...', timeout: 30000}) // 30 seconds
```

### Calling The API

With your fresh `api`, you can now call it like this:

```js
api.get('/repos/skellock/apisauce/commits')
api.head('/me')
api.delete('/users/69')
api.post('/todos', {note: 'jump around'})
api.patch('/servers/1', {live: false})
api.put('/servers/1', {live: true})
```

`get`, `head`, and `delete` accept 3 parameters:

* url - the relative path to the API (required)
* params - Object - query string variables (optional)
* axiosConfig - Object - config passed along to the `axios` request (optional)

`post`, `put`, and `patch` accept 3 different parameters:

* url - the relative path to the API (required)
* data - Object - the object jumping the wire
* axiosConfig - Object - config passed along to the `axios` request (optional)

### Responses

The responses are promise-based, so you you'll need to handle things in a
`.then()` function.

The promised is always resolved with a `response` object.

Even if there was a problem with the request!  This is one of the goals of
this library.  It ensures sane calling code without having to handle `.catch`
and have 2 separate flows.

A response will always have these 2 properties:

```
ok      - Boolean - True is the status code is in the 200's; false otherwise.
problem - String  - One of 6 different values (see below - problem codes)
```

If the request made it to the server and got a response of any kind, response
will also have these properties:

```
data    - Object - this is probably the thing you're after.
status  - Number - the HTTP response code
headers - Object - the HTTP response headers
config  - Object - the `axios` config object used to make the request
```

### Adding Monitors

Monitors are functions you can attach to the API which will be caused
when any request is made.  You can use it to do things like:

* check for headers and record values
* determine if you need to trigger other parts of your code
* measure performance of API calls
* perform logging

Monitors are run just before the promise is resolved.  You get an
early sneak peak at what will come back.

You cannot change anything, just look.

Here's a sample monitor:
```js
const naviMonitor = (response) => console.log('hey!  listen! ', response)
api.addMonitor(naviMonitor)
```

Any exceptions that you trigger in your monitor will not affect the flow
of the api request.

```js
api.addMonitor(response => this.kaboom())
```

Internally, each monitor callback is surrounded by an oppressive `try/catch`
block.

Remember.  Safety first!



# Problem Codes

The `problem` property on responses is filled with the best
guess on where the problem lies.  You can use a switch to
check the problem.  The values are exposed as `CONSTANTS`
hanging on your built API.

```
Constant        VALUE               Status Code   Explanation
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NONE             null               200-299       No problems.
CLIENT_ERROR     'CLIENT_ERROR'     400-499       Any non-specific 400 series error.
SERVER_ERROR     'SERVER_ERROR'     500-599       Any 500 series error.
TIMEOUT_ERROR    'TIMEOUT_ERROR'    ---           Server didn't respond in time.
CONNECTION_ERROR 'CONNECTION_ERROR' ---           Server not available, bad dns.
NETWORK_ERROR    'NETWORK_ERROR'    ---           Network not available.
```

Which problem is chosen will be picked by walking down the list.

# Feedback

Bugs?  Comments?  Features?  PRs and Issues happily welcomed!

# Release Notes

### 0.1.0 - April 10th, 2016

* Initial Release

### TODO

* [ ] Detect and handle timeouts.
* [ ] Detect network failures on iOS and Android.

Commit message:

Adds notes and tests for using async/await.

README.md, after:

# Apisauce

```
(Ring ring ring,)
< Hello?
> Hi, can I speak to JSON API.
< Speaking.
> Hi, it's me JavaScript.  Look, we need to talk.
< Now is not a good time...
> Wait, I just wanted to say, sorry.
< ...
```

Talking to APIs doesn't have to be awkward anymore.

[![npm module](https://badge.fury.io/js/apisauce.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/apisauce)

# Features

* low-fat wrapper for the amazing `axios` http client library
* all responses follow the same flow: success and failure alike
* responses have a `problem` property to help guide exception flow
* attach functions that get called each request
* detects connection issues

# Installing

`npm i apisauce --save`

* Depends on `ramdasauce 1.0.0+`
* Depends on `axios 0.9.1+`.
* Targets ES5.
* Built with ES6.
* Supported in Node and the browser(s).


# Quick Start

```js
// showLastCommitMessageForThisLibrary.js
import {create} from 'apisauce'

// define the api
const api = create({
  baseURL: 'https://api.github.com',
  headers: {'Accept': 'application/vnd.github.v3+json'}
})

// start making calls
api
  .get('/repos/skellock/apisauce/commits')
  .then((response) => response.data[0].commit.message)
  .then(console.log)
```

See the examples folder for more code.

# Documentation

### Create an API

You create an api by calling `.create()` and passing in a configuration object.

```js
const api = create({baseURL: 'https://api.github.com'})
```

The only required property is `baseURL` and it should be the starting point for
your API.  It can contain a sub-path and a port as well.

```js
const api = create({baseURL: 'https://example.com/api/v3'})
```

HTTP request headers for all requests can be included as well.

```js
const api = create({
  baseURL: '...',
  headers: {
    'X-API-KEY': '123',
    'X-MARKS-THE-SPOT': 'yarrrrr'
  }
})
```

Default timeouts can be applied too:

```js
const api = create({baseURL: '...', timeout: 30000}) // 30 seconds
```

### Calling The API

With your fresh `api`, you can now call it like this:

```js
api.get('/repos/skellock/apisauce/commits')
api.head('/me')
api.delete('/users/69')
api.post('/todos', {note: 'jump around'})
api.patch('/servers/1', {live: false})
api.put('/servers/1', {live: true})
```

`get`, `head`, and `delete` accept 3 parameters:

* url - the relative path to the API (required)
* params - Object - query string variables (optional)
* axiosConfig - Object - config passed along to the `axios` request (optional)

`post`, `put`, and `patch` accept 3 different parameters:

* url - the relative path to the API (required)
* data - Object - the object jumping the wire
* axiosConfig - Object - config passed along to the `axios` request (optional)

### Responses

The responses are promise-based, so you you'll need to handle things in a
`.then()` function.

The promised is always resolved with a `response` object.

Even if there was a problem with the request!  This is one of the goals of
this library.  It ensures sane calling code without having to handle `.catch`
and have 2 separate flows.

A response will always have these 2 properties:

```
ok      - Boolean - True is the status code is in the 200's; false otherwise.
problem - String  - One of 6 different values (see below - problem codes)
```

If the request made it to the server and got a response of any kind, response
will also have these properties:

```
data    - Object - this is probably the thing you're after.
status  - Number - the HTTP response code
headers - Object - the HTTP response headers
config  - Object - the `axios` config object used to make the request
```

### Adding Monitors

Monitors are functions you can attach to the API which will be caused
when any request is made.  You can use it to do things like:

* check for headers and record values
* determine if you need to trigger other parts of your code
* measure performance of API calls
* perform logging

Monitors are run just before the promise is resolved.  You get an
early sneak peak at what will come back.

You cannot change anything, just look.

Here's a sample monitor:
```js
const naviMonitor = (response) => console.log('hey!  listen! ', response)
api.addMonitor(naviMonitor)
```

Any exceptions that you trigger in your monitor will not affect the flow
of the api request.

```js
api.addMonitor(response => this.kaboom())
```

Internally, each monitor callback is surrounded by an oppressive `try/catch`
block.

Remember.  Safety first!

# Using Async/Await

If you're more of a stage-0 kinda person, you can use it like this:

```js
const api = create({baseURL: '...'})
const response = await api.get('/slowest/site/on/the/net')
console.log(response.ok) // yay!
```

# Problem Codes

The `problem` property on responses is filled with the best
guess on where the problem lies.  You can use a switch to
check the problem.  The values are exposed as `CONSTANTS`
hanging on your built API.

```
Constant        VALUE               Status Code   Explanation
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NONE             null               200-299       No problems.
CLIENT_ERROR     'CLIENT_ERROR'     400-499       Any non-specific 400 series error.
SERVER_ERROR     'SERVER_ERROR'     500-599       Any 500 series error.
TIMEOUT_ERROR    'TIMEOUT_ERROR'    ---           Server didn't respond in time.
CONNECTION_ERROR 'CONNECTION_ERROR' ---           Server not available, bad dns.
NETWORK_ERROR    'NETWORK_ERROR'    ---           Network not available.
```

Which problem is chosen will be picked by walking down the list.

# Feedback

Bugs?  Comments?  Features?  PRs and Issues happily welcomed!

# Release Notes

### 0.1.0 - April 10th, 2016

* Initial Release

### TODO

* [ ] Detect and handle timeouts.
* [ ] Detect network failures on iOS and Android.
